limit [ -hs ] [ resource [ limit ] ] ...
       Set  or  display  resource limits.  Unless the -s flag is given,
       the limit applies only the children of  the  shell.   If  -s  is
       given  without  other arguments, the resource limits of the cur-
       rent shell is set to the previously set resource limits  of  the
       children.

       If limit is not specified, print the current limit placed on re-
       source, otherwise set the limit to the specified value.  If  the
       -h flag is given, use hard limits instead of soft limits.  If no
       resource is given, print all limits.

       When looping over multiple resources, the shell will abort imme-
       diately  if  it detects a badly formed argument.  However, if it
       fails to set a limit for some other reason it will continue try-
       ing to set the remaining limits.

       resource can be one of:

       addressspace
              Maximum amount of address space used.
       aiomemorylocked
              Maximum  amount  of  memory  locked in RAM for AIO opera-
              tions.
       aiooperations
              Maximum number of AIO operations.
       cachedthreads
              Maximum number of cached threads.
       coredumpsize
              Maximum size of a core dump.
       cputime
              Maximum CPU seconds per process.
       datasize
              Maximum data size (including stack) for each process.
       descriptors
              Maximum value for a file descriptor.
       filesize
              Largest single file allowed.
       kqueues
              Maximum number of kqueues allocated.
       maxproc
              Maximum number of processes.
       maxpthreads
              Maximum number of threads per process.
       memorylocked
              Maximum amount of memory locked in RAM.
       memoryuse
              Maximum resident set size.
       msgqueue
              Maximum number of bytes in POSIX message queues.
       posixlocks
              Maximum number of POSIX locks per user.
       pseudoterminals
              Maximum number of pseudo-terminals.
       resident
              Maximum resident set size.
       sigpending
              Maximum number of pending signals.
       sockbufsize
              Maximum size of all socket buffers.
       stacksize
              Maximum stack size for each process.
       swapsize
              Maximum amount of swap used.
       vmemorysize
              Maximum amount of virtual memory.

       Which of these resource limits are available depends on the sys-
       tem.  resource can be abbreviated to any unambiguous prefix.  It
       can also be an integer, which corresponds to the integer defined
       for the resource by the operating system.

       If argument corresponds to a number which is out of the range of
       the resources configured into the shell, the shell will  try  to
       read or write the limit anyway, and will report an error if this
       fails.  As the shell does not store such  resources  internally,
       an  attempt  to  set the limit will fail unless the -s option is
       present.

       limit is a number, with an optional scaling factor, as follows:

       nh     hours
       nk     kilobytes (default)
       nm     megabytes or minutes
       ng     gigabytes
       [mm:]ss
              minutes and seconds

       The limit command is not made  available  by  default  when  the
       shell  starts in a mode emulating another shell.  It can be made
       available with the command `zmodload -F zsh/rlimits b:limit'.
